Durable teams are built on a shared purpose that comes from the company itself, and they align themselves with the company’s values (see “Applying Core Values” in Chapter 9 for more on this topic). They have a clear understanding of the company’s mission, and they see how their team fits into this mission. They can see that the mission requires many different types of teams, but all of the teams share a set of values. By creating a strong and enduring alignment between the team, its individuals, and the overall company, this purpose-based binding makes teams:

- **Resilient to loss of individuals.** While the clique is fragile, especially to the loss of the leader, the purpose-driven team tends to be very resilient to the loss of individuals and leadership. Because they’re loyal to the mission of the larger organization, they can see a path forward even through loss. 
- **Driven to find better ways to achieve their purpose**. Purpose-driven teams are more open to new ideas and value changes that can help them serve their purpose better. They care less about the source of an idea than its merit in achieving their goals. The members of these teams are interested in learning from others outside their function, and they actively seek out chances to collaborate more broadly to create the best results. 
- **First-team focused.** Leaders who are strong team players understand that the people who report to them are not their first team. Instead, their first team is their peers across the company. This first-team focus helps them make decisions that consider the needs of the company as a whole before focusing on the needs of their team. 
- **Open to changes that serve their purpose.** The collaborative leader understands that changes will happen to serve the wider purpose. Teams will change structure and people will need to move to where the business needs are. With that knowledge, these leaders create teams that are more flexible and understanding of frequent change in service of the larger vision.

Getting clarity about the purpose of your team and your company can take time. In startups especially, there is often some confusion about the current goals and even sometimes the underlying mission. In the case where the goals are fuzzy and the mission is unclear, do your best to understand the company culture and think about how you can set your teams up to work well within that culture. By collaborating across teams and across business functions, your teams will come to understand the bigger picture and appreciate their mission as part of that picture.

— The Manager's Path: A Guide for Tech Leaders Navigating Growth and Change by Camille Fournier https://a.co/aV3VcTe